>> The search for
the Holy Grail.
Has the ancient relic
been located in England?
This is "Gaia News."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The Holy Grail, the
legendary Cup of Christ
said to have been used by
Jesus at the Last Supper.
Treasure hunters have
searched for it for centuries.
Hundreds of people have
claimed to possess it.
And now UK-based amateur
archaeologist Barrie-Jon Bower
tells "The Sun" newspaper
he knows where it is.
Bower, who says he has studied
the Grail and the Knights
Templar for years,
believes the Grail
is hidden in a secret chamber
beneath a man-made river
in the Hounslow
Heath area of London.
But how could one of the most
sought after relics of the Holy
Land make its way to
an underground hiding
place in London?
Bower tells "The Sun" the
Knights Templar trained
in this area before
their crusades and claims
they built the secret
underground crypt
to hide treasures
from the Holy Land.
Bower told "The Sun,"
quote, "Finally I am
certain this is the right spot.
I am certain there
will be a vault
beneath the surface
with the Grail inside
and other treasures
from the Crusades."
Freddy Silva, independent
researcher and author
of the "First Templar Nation,"
has studied the Templars
and the Holy Grail for years.
So what will they find?
>> Well, the problem is that the
Grail is not a physical object.
It's a metaphorical object.
That's the problem.
They'll never find
a physical object.
The Cup is the
metaphoric cup that
holds the wisdom of initiation.
That's what the Templars
were protecting all along.
And paradoxically, it
also represents a person.
It represents a bloodline.
And that's essentially
what it was all about.
So the thing with
understanding the mysteries
is that you have to
understand that they talked
in riddles and metaphors.
And unless you
understand the metaphor,
you'll always be looking
for a physical object.
And that's the problem.
So good luck with the
dredging operation.
>> If the Holy Grail has
always been a metaphor,
why has there been this
fascination with hunting
for a physical
relic for centuries?
>> Oh, I think it's to do with
the lack of understanding.
Once an idea has reached its
climax and then it disappears--
I mean, the Templars were
handed out of existence.
They were underground.
And they took their
secrets with them.
People tried to
infiltrate the Order.
And they kind of succeeded
but not very well,
because there was
a sort of a shoot
to kill order if anybody
managed to penetrate
the inner temple of
brotherhood because they
had some very special secrets
that they were holding on to.
And this is actually
one of their rules--
if any brother or
sister should give away
the secrets of the inner
temple, in serious cases
they would be shot, even
if it's the King of France.
>> If the Grail is
not a physical relic,
how did we get here?
>> Yeah, the thing with
the Templars is if you go
to the place where they had
their most famous monuments
in Portugal, the tower, or
the Rotunda as they call it,
in Tomar is the
repository of the Grail.
Yes and no.
There's actually
nothing physical there.
And you have to look
at the name of the town
where this was built.
It's called Tomar, which
in Portuguese means to drink.
Well, you can't
drink a building.
So therefore, there's your clue.
You're drinking a
metaphorical cup.
You're drinking the
knowledge, the wisdom that's
buried and hardwired
into the building,
because that's where the
teachings were taught.
So if you look at the Templar
story, they were following
and they're practicing
something called the Way, which
is exactly the same
series of teachings
that the Essenes and Jesus
Christ were following.
That gives you a very
big clue, because I
traced the concept
of the Way back
all the way through the
Middle East through Sumeria.
And there's a paper trail that
goes all the way back to Japan
at about 8,000 BC, where you had
the 17 teachings of the goddess
Ise.
And the people were called
the Followers of the Way.
And that became known as
the Tai, which we know today
as the Tao, or the Dao.
So these are spiritual teachings
which go back to a time
when gods rule the Earth
before the end of the Ice Age.
It's part of this concept
of the divine bloodline.
And that's also
something that crept all
around the world and something
that the Templars were also
protecting.
So now we go back to the story
of Jesus, Mary Magdalene.
Why was the Church so adamant on
promoting Jesus and denouncing
Mary Magdalene and worse,
making us forget about John
the Baptist, who's actually
the most important story?
Now, the person that the
Templars were protecting
and they honored
beyond anyone else
was John the Baptist
and Mary Magdalene.
>> And Freddy Silva's advice
for Bower and anyone looking
for the Cup of Christ as a
physical relic you can hold
in your hand?
>> Give up.
[LAUGHS] The trick is-- the
thing is with archaeology--
I respect these people
as much as the grief
I get from them because they're
looking for physical objects.
They have to
understand the language
of metaphor and the mystery.
So if you're looking
for the Cup of Christ,
you'll never find it.
It's just not there.
It's a metaphor.
It's a symbol.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Whether the Holy Grail is
an actual goblet or a metaphor
for the cup that holds
the wisdom of initiation,
one thing is for sure--
you must cut down the
mightiest tree in the forest
with a herring or people will
continue to search for it
one way or another.
For a new perspective,
this is "Gaia News."